Updating Best Practices (#959)
graphprotocol/docs: website/src/pages/en/subgraphs/querying/best-practices.mdx

title: Querying Best Practices
---

Use The Graph's GraphQL API to query [Subgraph](/subgraphs/developing/subgraphs/) data efficiently. This guide outlines essential GraphQL rules, guides, and best practices to help you write optimized, reliable queries.

---

## Querying a GraphQL API

### The Anatomy of a GraphQL Query

> > GraphQL queries use GraphQL language, which is defined in the [GraphQL specification](https://spec.graphql.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> GraphQL queries use the GraphQL language, which is defined in the [GraphQL specification](https://spec.graphql.org/).
```

// Execute query...
```

While the example above produces a valid GraphQL query, it comes with several issues:

> - The full query is harder to understand
> - Developers are responsible for safely sanitizing the string interpolation
> - Not sending the values of the variables as part of the request can block server-side caching
> - It prevents tools from statically analyzing the query (ex: Linter, or type generations tools)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The full query is harder to understand.
- Developers are responsible for safely sanitizing the string interpolation.
- Not sending the values of the variables as part of the request can block server-side caching.
- It prevents tools from statically analyzing the query (e.g. linters or type generation tools).
```

})
```

### 3. Ask Only For What You Want

> GraphQL is known for it's "Ask for what you want” tagline, which is why it requires explicitly listing each field you want. There's no built-in way to fetch all available fields automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL is known for its "Ask for what you want” tagline, which is why it requires explicitly listing each field you want. There's no built-in way to fetch all available fields automatically.
```

const  { result: { tokens, counters } } = execute(query)
```

> Sending multiple queries in the same GraphQL request **improves the overall performance** by reducing the time spent on the network (saves you a round trip to the API) and will provide a **more concise implementation**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending multiple queries in the same GraphQL request **improves the overall performance** by reducing the time spent on the network (saves you a round trip to the API) and provides a **more concise implementation**.
```

}
```

Using a GraphQL `fragment` improves readability (especially at scale) and results in better TypeScript types generation.

When using the types generation tool, the above query will generate a proper `DelegateItemFragment` type (_see last "Tools" section_).

## GraphQL Fragment Guidelines

### Do's and Don'ts for Fragments

> 1. Fragments cannot be based on a non-applicable types (on type not having fields)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fragments cannot be based on non-applicable types (types without fields)
```
(not 100% sure that's the original meaning)

> 2. `BigInt` cannot be used as a fragment's base because it's a **scalar** (native "plain" type)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. `BigInt` cannot be used as a fragment's base because it's a **scalar** (native "plain" type).
```

}
```

- `newDelegate` and `oldDelegate` are of type `Transcoder`. It's not possible to spread a fragment of type `Vote` here.

5. Fragments must be defined based on their specific usage.
6. Define fragments as an atomic business unit of data.

---

### How-to Define `Fragment` as an Atomic Business Unit of Data

> > For most use-case, defining one fragment per type (in the case of repeated fields usage or type generation) is enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For most use-cases, defining one fragment per type (in the case of repeated fields usage or type generation) is enough.
```

2. Use the ["operations-recommended"](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/eslint/docs/configs) config

This will enforce essential rules such as:

- `@graphql-eslint/fields-on-correct-type`: Ensures fields match the proper type.
- `@graphql-eslint/no-unused variables`: Flags unused variables in your queries.

Result: You'll **catch errors without even testing queries** on the playground or running them in production!

#### Use IDE plugins

GraphQL plugins streamline your workflow by offering real-time feedback while you code. They highlight mistakes, suggest completions, and help you explore your schema faster.

1. VS Code

Install the [GraphQL VSCode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) to unlock:

- Syntax highlighting
- Autocomplete suggestions
- Validation against schema
- Snippets
- Go to definition for fragments and input types

If you are using `graphql-eslint`, use the [ESLint VSCode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) to visualize errors and warnings inlined in your code correctly.

> 2. WebStorm/Intellij and GraphQL\*\*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. WebStorm/Intellij and GraphQL
```
